# CRUD API

### Prerequisites
1. Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)   
2. Fork this repository: https://github.com/TymchenkoA/node-crud-api 
4. Go to folder `node-crud-api`  
5. To install all dependencies use [`npm install`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/install)  
6. Start your project in development or production mode

---

### Scripts

```
# run project in development mode
$ npm run start:dev

# run project in production mode
$ npm run start:prod
```

---

## General project description
This project is a simple Node.js CRUD API that manages user data in an in-memory database. The application does not use any external libraries like Express for routing, and it demonstrates how to handle basic CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations.

### API Endpoints

1. GET api/users is used to get all persons
2. GET api/users/{userId} is used to retrieve a user by ID.
3. POST api/users is used to create record about new user and store it in database
4. PUT api/users/{userId} is used to update existing user
5. DELETE api/users/{userId} is used to delete existing user from database

### Request and Response format
User Object
The user object has the following properties:

id (string): Unique identifier (UUID) generated by the server.
username (string): User's name (required).
age (number): User's age (required).
hobbies (array of strings): User's hobbies (required, can be an empty array).

### Error handling
The API returns appropriate status codes and error messages:

200 OK: Request was successful.
201 Created: A new resource was created successfully.
204 No Content: Resource was deleted successfully.
400 Bad Request: Validation failed.
404 Not Found: Resource not found.
500 Internal Server Error: An unexpected error occurred.


### Validation
User data is validated before being stored:

username is a required string.
age is a required number.
hobbies is a required array (can be empty).
UUID validation is performed to ensure that IDs are valid UUIDs.
